---
layout: post
title:  "My Code"
date:   2025-05-31 06:30:20 +0300
categories: philosophy
---

### My Code


#### Control

 To fully control something means to be able to 100% influence what it will be. 
 You say it will be and so it becomes. 
 You influence it to be and it is 100% affected by your influence.
 My ability to influence something does not translate to ability to control it.
 When I can influence something, I cannot always know if it is my influence for why it reacted how I intended to influence it to.
 I can to a limited extent influence:
     the weather, what others think, tomorrow, the results of my endeavours.


#### What I do not control.

 I do not have the ability to change the weather.
 I do not have the ability to dictate what others think, of me or of anything.
 I do not have the ability change anything my genetic traits.
 I do not have the ability to change what happened yesterday, both what I did or what anyone else did and anything that happened before now.
 I do not have the ability to make tomorrow be exactly as I would have wanted it to.
 I do not have the ability to undo my mistakes or to undo anything about history.
 I do not have the ability to control the state of results of my efforts, or my attempts at anything, however well executed.


#### Splitting resources between what I can control and what don't 
 What I control deserves all my effort.
 What I do not control deserves none of my time, or effort.



### The value derived from expenditure of resources on what can't be controlled.
 Resources I spend on bending the weather to my will are resources wasted.
 Resources spent on having 100% influence on what others think of me are resources wasted.
 My time spent worrying about any of the above things is time stolen from making progress where I have relative full control.
 My time spent worrying about any of the above things is time thrown out of the window never to be gotten back.

### What I fully control

 Attempting to do what I can get myself to is fully within my control.
 Attempting to increase how much I can get myself to do is fully within my control.
 How I use my limited resources is fully within my control.
 Increasing how much skill I have marshalling my own resources to get things done is fully within my control.
 How I react when others say anything , polarised or neutral is fully within my control.
 How I react when befalled by acts of nature, things I could never have seen coming, is fully within my control.
 My reaction in any situation is fully within my control.
 I have full control over my decision to influence results if that's to the smallest extent within my control.
 I have full control over how much effort I expend towards influencing what I can. 
 I have control over how I manage my time.

### Worrying and Complaining

 That I worry or complain about anything is ignorance about all the above written.

### The Mind, the control sentinel

 My mind is my center for control. I have more chance to control it than anyone other than me its owner.
 My mind can be controlled by anything or anyone.
 It's as easy for external entities to control my mind as my grip over its controls are weak.
 Any control over my mind is control that I allow.
 Anyone that's skilled enough can hijack that control.
 Anyone that's weak enough can be controlled by external entities.
 Strength over grip over the mind's controls can be increased to unknown limits.
 I can daily attempt to strengthen the grip I have over my mind's controls.
 I am responsible for what is mine. My mind is mine.


